---
title: "SIRM.FTMS.peakPickingMethods"
git_commit: "b5445731"
date: "2016-07-22 14:40:19"
output: 
  md_document:
    preserve_yaml: TRUE
---

About
-----

This package is for implementing and testing various peak picking
methods, as well as providing classes and methods for working with the
raw mass-spec data and the picked peaks.

Installation
------------

    git clone https://gitlab.cesb.uky.edu/rmflight/SIRM.FTMS.peakPickingMethods.git
    cd SIRM.FTMS.peakPickingMethods.git
    R
    devtools::install()

PreRequisites
-------------

    library(BiocInstaller)
    biocLite("xcms")
    install.packages("pracma")

Generating mzML
---------------

If all you have is Thermo `raw` files, you can convert those using
`msconvert` on the windows command line:

    msconvert *.RAW -o output_dir

You should probably not be selecting the scans to output at this point,
because you may want them later. Better to select scans when you've read
in the data from the `mzML`. If you limit the scans when converting, you
will have to re-run the conversion if you decide you want other ones
later.

Analyzing Data
--------------

To analyze the data, you will make use of the `AnalyzeMS` class to
control the overall analysis workflow.

### Finding Peaks

One of the major plusses of using this package, is the ability to change
the **peak finding** method used. However, this does create some
overhead for you if you want to use a custom peak finding function. This
is due to wrapping the **peak finding** function in another function
that documents the function that was used. Below is an example (this is
actually the current default in the package):

    find_peaks_default <- function(data, scan_range){
      avg_data <- as.data.frame(xcms::getSpec(data, scanrange = scan_range))
      avg_data$ObservedMZ <- avg_data$mz
      avg_data$Intensity <- avg_data$intensity
      avg_data$mz <- NULL
      avg_data$intensity <- NULL
      avg_peaks <- find_peaks_diff(avg_data)
      
      function_call <- "find_peaks_diff"
      function_pkg <- find(function_call)
      pkg_desc <- utils::packageDescription(substring(function_pkg, 9))
      if (!is.null(pkg_desc$RemoteSha)) {
        pkg_sha <- pkg_desc$RemoteSha
      } else {
        pkg_sha <- ""
      }
      pkg_version <- packageVersion(substring(function_pkg, 9))
      picking_description <- list(package = function_pkg,
                                 version = pkg_desc$Version,
                                 sha = pkg_sha,
                                 function_called = function_call,
                                 parameters = list(scan_range = force(scan_range))
                                 )
      PeakPickingAnalysis$new(in_peaks = avg_peaks,
                              in_parameters = list(scan_range = force(scan_range),
                                                            picking_description = picking_description))
    }

In this example, the actual **peak finding** function is
`find_peaks_diff`, which takes the averaged spectrum across scans
generated by `xcms::getSpec`. After the data generation, the rest of the
code is all about **documenting** the function that did the peak finding
itself. This code should be part of every **peak finding** function,
otherwise we won't be able to track provenance.
